---
# Page settings
layout: default
keywords:
comments: false

# Micro navigation
micro_nav: false

# Page navigation
page_nav:
    prev:
        content: Previous Story
        url: '/causal_stories/79'
    next:
        content: Next Story
        url: '/causal_stories/81'
---
# Causal Stories

## Story 80

<div class='text-hightlight'>
Mr. Wallace is highly influential in the organized crime scene. Although he commands the respect of many, there are also a number of people who stand to benefit from his death. Today, he was having lunch with one of his associates, Mr. Vincent. At one point during their meeting, Mr. Wallace left the table to go to the toilet. While he was gone, Mr. Vincent managed to slip a lethal dose of poison into his martini. The poison is known to take one hour (give or take 10 minutes, depending on the victim's body weight) to kill and would go unnoticed for the first half hour after consumption. When Mr. Wallace returned to the table, he finished his lunch and then drank the rest of his martini. The two men concluded their meeting a few minutes later. Mr. Wallace paid the bill and they both left the restaurant going in different directions. Mr. Wallace had another important business meeting about 15 minutes away in a remote part of the countryside. On an isolated stretch of road, he noticed that he was suddenly being followed by a van that had pulled out from the roadside. The van accelerated and began hitting his car from behind. Mr. Wallace recognized that the driver was Mr. Bruce, an associate of one of Mr. Wallace's rivals. He tried to evade the van but there was no time. The van relentlessly hit his car and pushed it off the side where it fell into a ravine and exploded. The remains of Mr. Wallace's body were discovered later that day. The chief coroner's report later revealed that Mr. Wallace had received fatal burns in the car explosion. The report also indicated, however, that a lethal dose of poison was found in Mr. Wallace's blood.
</div>

## Question

<p>
<div class='text-hightlight'>Did the car crash cause Mr. Wallace's death?</div>
</p>

**Majority Answer**: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">Yes</code>

**Answer distribution over 25 people:**

<div class="container">
<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-7">
    <div class="slider-container">
        <div class="slider">
            <div class="slider-value" id="sliderValue"></div>
        </div>
        <div class="slider-labels">
            <span id="yesLabel">P(Yes): 0.80</span>
            <span id="noLabel">P(No): 0.20</span>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

**Is Ambiguous**:  <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">False</code> <!-- False -->

## Factor

These are the factors and their attributes present in this story.

