---
# Page settings
layout: default
keywords:
comments: false

# Micro navigation
micro_nav: false

# Page navigation
page_nav:
    prev:
        content: Previous Story
        url: '/causal_stories/84'
    next:
        content: Next Story
        url: '/causal_stories/86'
---
# Causal Stories

## Story 85

<div class='text-hightlight'>
Long ago, when John was only 17 years old, he got a job working for a large manufacturing company. He started out working on an assembly line for minimum wage, but after a few years at the company, he was given a choice between two line manager positions. He could stay in the woodwork division, which is where he was currently working. Or he could move to the plastics division. John was unsure what to do because he liked working in the woodwork division, but he also thought it might be worth trying something different. He finally decided to switch to the plastics division and try something new. For the last 30 years, John has worked as a production line supervisor in the plastics division. After the first year there, the plastics division was moved to a different building with more space. Unfortunately, through the many years he worked there, John was exposed to asbestos, a highly carcinogenic substance. Most of the plastics division was quite safe, but the small part in which John worked was exposed to asbestos fibers. And now, although John has never smoked a cigarette in his life and otherwise lives a healthy lifestyle, he has a highly progressed and incurable case of lung cancer at the age of 50. John had seen three cancer specialists, all of whom confirmed the worst: that, except for pain, John's cancer was untreatable and he was absolutely certain to die from it very soon (the doctors estimated no more than 2 months). Yesterday, while John was in the hospital for a routine medical appointment, a new nurse accidentally administered the wrong medication to him. John was allergic to the drug and he immediately went into shock and experienced cardiac arrest (a heart attack). Doctors attempted to resuscitate him but he died minutes after the medication was administered.
</div>

## Question

<p>
<div class='text-hightlight'>Did misadministration of medication cause John's premature death?</div>
</p>

**Majority Answer**: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">Yes</code>

**Answer distribution over 25 people:**

<div class="container">
<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-7">
    <div class="slider-container">
        <div class="slider">
            <div class="slider-value" id="sliderValue"></div>
        </div>
        <div class="slider-labels">
            <span id="yesLabel">P(Yes): 0.56</span>
            <span id="noLabel">P(No): 0.44</span>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

**Is Ambiguous**:  <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">True</code> <!-- False -->

## Factor

These are the factors and their attributes present in this story.

